=> ../index.gmi [..]

```
    _                    _ _  __ _   _                _       
   / \   _ __ ___  _ __ | (_)/ _(_) | |__   ___  __ _| |_ ___ 
  / _ \ | '_ ` _ \| '_ \| | | |_| | | '_ \ / _ \/ _` | __/ __|
 / ___ \| | | | | | |_) | | |  _| | | |_) |  __/ (_| | |_\__ \
/_/   \_\_| |_| |_| .__/|_|_|_| |_| |_.__/ \___|\__,_|\__|___/
```


# [RANT] Burgers and swear words

!!!Disclaimer, these are opinions, valid ones at that, if you oppose my ideas, good for you! Don't bully me because I'm wrong, just move on with your life, which is probably far more interesting than this gemlog. Also, while I'm not dyslexic, I don't have 6/6 vision (20/20 for the Americans), so spelling errors are a possible occurence, if they exist and you care to help, fork the github repo and make a pull, or raise an issue and I'll give you my thanks! With that out of the way, here's some ranting:

## Burger King
Burger King is a waste of energy, obviously cos it's fast food. But I pay for a burger that is displayed to have certain items, and such items are omitted when I receive said burger, I won't be particularly pleased. This isn't a one-off experience, time and time again I have received an incorrect order, "oh, why don't you stop eating there?" I hear you ask, it's out of necessity, I'm hungry in the last stretch of a long journey and someone in the car has to pee, we're gonna eat somewhere, Burger King has a tendency to appear.

But that's fine, similar to McDonald's, the food is crappy, but tasty enough that you don't care much, prices are decent. But the quality control is obscene. That's it for BK, now the Whopper, swearing.

## Swear Words
Words are words, I can say "I love you" to a person in the most menacing and threatening way possible, or I could jokingly exclaim the f-word (which is fuck for anyone wondering). Which one of these situations is actually a problem? If you ask society, the latter is more of an issue. I'm not sure why certain words became contraband. Some words have a history and develop to earn negative conotations (rarely positive ones strangely)

Let me just quote Wikipedia real quick, which by the way teachers, is a viable option for research, strict editing policies and such.

> While there is no evidence of harmful effects of swearing (for instance, that it leads to physical violence) there is research showing that swearing is associated with enhanced pain tolerance. The authors concluded that swearing prompts a fight-or-flight response and quashes the link between the fear of pain and the perception of pain itself. 


### Some words that have different origins

* Shit
According to OED, "shit" has been used to mean an "obnoxious person" since 1508. The dictionary also has a list of common phrases involving "shit" and the approximate year they were first used.
(the prefix of bull- meant to be false talk or fraud. Came from the french word Bole, meaning deception)

* Damn (If you think it's a swear)
"Damn" has gone through a long line of evolutions, starting from the Latin words damnum meaning "damage, hurt, harm; loss, injury; a fine, penalty" and the verb damnare meaning "to adjudge guilty; to doom; to condemn, blame, reject". 

* Fuck
The origin of "fuck" is one of the hardest to trace, as it was banned from early written work and dictionaries.
Etymologies from various sources all tend to agree that the word probably developed from various Germanic languages. The verb form of the word in German is ficken. In Dutch, fokken means "to breed or beget." Norwegians have the word fukka, which means "to copulate." Swedish also has focka (to strike, to copulate) and fock (penis).

(some more stuff from wikipedia)
>A 2017 paper by Gilad Feldman and co-workers claimed to show a correlation between swearing and various measures of honesty. From three separate studies, the authors “ found a consistent positive relationship between profanity and honesty; profanity was associated with less lying and deception at the individual level and with higher integrity at the society level”. However, the methodology of this study has been challenged by other Psychologists and the study is a subject of ongoing controversy. 



### Conclusion
I am publishing this with a lighter pair of shoulders, hopefully someone found the opinions listed here to be of interest or similar. All rant posts will be flagged as such in the index btw