=> ../index.gmi [..]

```
    _                    _ _  __ _       _             _ _
   / \   _ __ ___  _ __ | (_)/ _(_)  ___| |_ _   _  __| (_) ___  ___
  / _ \ | '_ ` _ \| '_ \| | | |_| | / __| __| | | |/ _` | |/ _ \/ __|
 / ___ \| | | | | | |_) | | |  _| | \__ \ |_| |_| | (_| | |  __/\__ \
/_/   \_\_| |_| |_| .__/|_|_|_| |_| |___/\__|\__,_|\__,_|_|\___||___/
```

> Níl aon tintéan mar do thintéan féin
> There is no place like home

# Cad é an Modh Coiníollach?
(this will be in English, I'm lazy)
This is the conditional tense (or mode), to express an action that can/might/would happen. For example, I would run, you would eat, she would sit, we would play.

Just to clarify to anyone not studying Irish, this is a scary tense, but some common phrases are actually in the Conditional tense! Although in a simpler form (which is a great way of boosting points if you're Ordinary level):

* Cad é ba mhaith leat?: What would you like?
* Ar mhaith leat cupán tae?: Would you like a cup of tea?
* Ba mhaith.:  Yes (“I would”)
* Níor mhaith: No (“I wouldn’t”) 


## Syntax
just a quick rundown of how you read it:

English:
> I would be rich and famous, if I had my dream job

Irish:
> Dá mbeadh an post aislingeach agam, bheinn clú agus cáiliúil

in literal English this means:
> If I had my dream job, I would be rich and famous

All verbs are in the modh coiníollach in a sentence!

> My phone would break if you kicked it
this makes sense in English
> My phone would break if you would kick it
is how you say it in Irish (with a literal translation)
> Bhrisfeadh mo fón póca dá dtabharfá cic dó
how you say it as Gaielge

btw this will be as Gaielge from now on...

# An chéad Réimniú - The First Group
(siolla amháin)

## Rialacha
* Séimhiú ag tús an bhriathair. Mar shampla: Chuirfinn
* ní + Séimhiú roimh an mbriathar san fhoirm dhíultach. Mar shampla: Ní ghlanfadh sí. (Ní chuirtear "h" ar briathar a thosaíonn le guta: ní íocfainn.)
* " D' " roimh ghuta nó roimh briathar a thosaíonn le "f": D'íocfainn
* an + urú san fhoirm ceisteach: An mbuailfeá leis?
* _fimis: nuair atá "sinn" i gceist agus nuair a chríochnaíonn an fhréamh ar chonsan caol: Rithfimis
* _faimis: ^ ach consan leathan: D'ólfaimis

## Líon - to fill
(siolla amháin, leathan)

* mé: líonfainn
* tú: líonfá
* sé/sí: líonfadh sé/sí
* sinn: líonfaimis
* sibh: líonfadh sibh
* siad: líonfaidis
* saor: líonfaí
ceisteach: an líonfadh mé? 
díultach: ní líonfadh sé

## Rith - to run
(siolla amháin, caol)

* mé: rithfinn
* tú: rithfeá
* sé/sí: rithfeadh sé/sí
* sinn: rithfimis
* sibh: rithfeadh sibh
* siad: rithfidís
* saor: rithfí
ceisteach: an rithfeadh tú?  
díultach: ní rithfeadh sí


Bhuel, sin é.
Scríobhfaidh mé post eile faoin Modh Coiníollach (an dara réimniú, briathar neamhrialta, etc.)