=> ../index.gmi [..]

```
    _                    _ _  __ _       _             _ _
   / \   _ __ ___  _ __ | (_)/ _(_)  ___| |_ _   _  __| (_) ___  ___
  / _ \ | '_ ` _ \| '_ \| | | |_| | / __| __| | | |/ _` | |/ _ \/ __|
 / ___ \| | | | | | |_) | | |  _| | \__ \ |_| |_| | (_| | |  __/\__ \
/_/   \_\_| |_| |_| .__/|_|_|_| |_| |___/\__|\__,_|\__,_|_|\___||___/
```

> Aller Anfang ist schwer
> All beginnings are hard

# Big brain German Study (große Gehirnstudie auf Deutsch)

* write your notes auf deutsch. jot down relevant words and ideas/info you want to add. Try and think in German too. Don't translate. Group words & phrases based on relation & think of appropriate conjunctions. (und, aber, weil...)
*  Make a list of English vocab you need and translate. Try and use German nuance and stuff. List gender and plural forms of words too.
* Type a draft of the essay or whatever, for easier edits. And use basic sentences, flesh out after the fact.
* Adjectives, adverbs, prepositional phrasing, using modals, etc. are a great way of improving how your German reads
* Conjunctions and relative clauses:
> Die Frau, die große ist | ✗ 
> Die große Frau | ✓
* Vary structure of sentences, vary sentence structure, have some variety in your structuring of sentences.
* Phrases and rhetorics make you look wayyy cooler:
> Warum ist das wichtig?

Hören Sie sich diese deutschsprachigen Lieder an
* Annet Louisan - Mama will ins Natz
* Wirtz - Im freien Fall
* Herrenmagazin - Der langsame Tod eines Sehr großen Tieres
* Andreas Bourani - Eisberg 
* Gisbert zu knyphansen - Dreh dich nicht um
* Bushido - Zeiten aendern sich